Array:
Need access the elements using the index.
Know the size of the array before defining the memory.
Speed when iterating through all the elements in the sequence.
Array takes less memory compare than linked list.

Linked List:
When the developer needs constant time for insertion and deletion.
When the data dynamically grows.
Do not access random elements from the linked list.
Insert the element in any position of the list.

Circular Linked List:
Develop the buffer memory.
Represent a deck of cards in a game.
Browser cache which allows to hit the BACK button.
Implement Most Recently Used (MRU) list.
Undo functionality in Photoshop or Word.

Doubly Linked List:
Easier to delete the node from doubly linked list.
Can be iterated in reverse order without recursion implementation.
Insert or remove from double-linked lists faster.

Binary Tree:
Find name in the phone book.
Sorted traversal of the tree.
Find the next closest element.
Find all elements less than or greater than a certain value.

Binary Search Tree:
Binary Search Trees are memory-efficient.
Use when the data need to be sorted.
Search can be done for a range of values.
Height balancing helps to reduce the running time.

Hashing:
Can be used in all situations and performs extremely well
Constant time operation.
Inserts are generally slow, reads are faster than trees.
Hashing is used so that searching a database can be done more efficiently.
Internet routers use hash tables to route the data from one computer to another.
Internet search engine uses hash function effectively.

Stack:
Expression evaluation and syntax parsing.
Finding the correct path in a maze using backtracking.
Runtime memory management.
Recursion function.

Queue:
Use queue when the developer wants an order.
Processed in First In First Out order.
If the developer wants to add or remove both ends, they can use the queue or a double-ended queue.

Heap:
Implement Priority Queue.
whenever the developer want quick access to the largest (or smallest) item.
Good for selection algorithms (finding the min or max).
Operations tend to be faster than for a binary tree.
Heap sort sorting methods being in-place and with no quadratic worst-case scenarios.
Graph algorithms are using heaps as internal traversal data structures, run time will be reduced by polynomial order.

Graph:
Networks have many uses in the practical side of graph theory.
Finding the shortest path between the cities.
Solve maze game.
Find the optimized route between the cities.

Matrix:
Matrix arithmetic in graphic processing algorithms.
Represent the graph.
Represent quadratic forms and linear algebra solution.
